# heimdall

heimdall is a chat bot built on the [Hubot][hubot] framework. It was
initially generated by [generator-hubot][generator-hubot].

This README is intended to help get you started. Definitely update and improve
to talk about your own instance, how to use and deploy, what functionality is
available, etc!

[hubot]: http://hubot.github.com
[generator-hubot]: https://github.com/github/generator-hubot

Valkyrie is the name of the Hubot we run in production.
Valkyrie can be summoned by name (`@Valkyrie`) or via her alias (`\`).

## Running Locally

Heimdall is the name of the Hubot we run when working locally on Hubot.
Heimdall can be summoned by name (`@Heimdall`) or via his alias (`?`).

This allows us to run both production and development Hubots at the same time
using the Flowdock adapter, and clearly differeniate which robot we are calling.
(Note that both robots will reply to `robot.hear` commands since those don't
require a direct invocation of the robot).

You can test your hubot by running the following, however some plugins will not
behave as expected unless the [environment variables](#configuration) they
rely upon have been set.

If you don't have local values for env vars referenced in `./env-var.list`, ask
someone how to get these values.

One exception is the Matrix password (when using the Matrix adapter to connect
to the Thesis chat server ;see [section on Adapters](#adapters)). When using the
`bin/heimdall` script, the script will search for a file `matrix-password.gpg`
that can be decrypted using the `gpg` tool. If the file exists, the decrypted
value will be placed into the `HUBOT_MATRIX_PASSWORD` environment variable for
use by the adapter.

Note that this file is gitignored, and should be encrypted locally with a key
accessible to your local gpg, and never committed to source control.

### Running locally in the terminal

Install npm if you don't already have it:

```
brew install npm
```

You can start Heimdall locally by running:

```
$ bin/heimdall
```

You'll see some start up output (it can get pretty verbose - `npm i` is run at
this time) and a prompt:

`heimdall>`

Then you can interact with Heimdall. If you don't know where to start, try
typing `?help`:

```
heimdall> ?help
heimdall> Shell: I can do a lot of things!  Which would you like to know more about? You can say:
```

(followed by a list of available commands)

### Running locally with VS Code

We strongly recommend running locally using Visual Studio Code, to
make use of its robust debugging functionality.

Add the following to the "configurations" list in your VS Code's `launch.json`:

```
{
    "type": "node",
    "request": "launch",
    "name": "Launch Heimdall Shell Adapter",
    "program": "${workspaceFolder}/node_modules/hubot/bin/hubot.js",
    "args": ["--alias", "?", "--name", "heimdall"],
    "runtimeArgs": ["-r", "coffeescript/register"],
    "console": "integratedTerminal"
},
{
    "type": "node",
    "request": "launch",
    "name": "Launch Heimdall Matrix Adapter",
    "program": "${workspaceFolder}/node_modules/hubot/bin/hubot.js",
    "args": ["--alias", "?", "--name", "heimdall", "-a", "matrix"],
    "runtimeArgs": ["-r", "coffeescript/register"],
    "console": "integratedTerminal"
},

```

You can then select either "Launch Heimdall Shell Adapter" or "Launch Heimdall
Matrix Adapter" (see [section on Adapters](#adapters)) from the "Run" menu of
the debugging pane.

### Running locally with Docker

You can also run using docker, which is what is deployed to kube:

```
$ brew install npm
$ npm install
$ npm audit fix
$ docker build -f infrastructure/docker/Dockerfile -t heimdall .
$ docker run -it --env-file ./env-var.list --entrypoint "bin/hubot" heimdall:latest
```

To log in to your running hubot container:

```
$ docker ps | grep 'heimdall:latest' | awk '{print $1}' | xargs -o -I {} docker exec -it {} /bin/sh
```

## Tests

Test coverage is currently not programmatically enforced, but we are working
toward coverage for existing scripts. Any PRs opened should contain tests for
new functionality introduced, and fix tests for any breaking changes.

Tests should be saved in the `test/` directory; these will be run automatically
by Circle CI whenever a branch is pushed to the remote. Test failures will
abort the build, and prevent merging.

To run tests locally before pushing your branch:
run `npm test` from the repo root.

## Deploying

We use Circle CI in conjunction with Github for our deployment.

Merges to master (via Pull Requests) trigger an automatic deploy of that
merge's build.

However, if there have been any changes to the `heimdall-hubot-deployment.yaml`,
those changes will need to be manually applied.

Edit `infrastructure/kube/thesis-ops/heimdall-hubot-deployment.yaml` to replace
`USE_CIRCLE_CI_BUILDS` with the relevant build number, and then apply:

```
$ kubectl apply -f infrastructure/kube/thesis-ops/heimdall-hubot-deployment.yaml
```

### Manual deployment

To deploy a new build, you'll need to set up Google Cloud SDK, authenticate,
install `kubectl`, and authenticate docker; again, on macOS:

```
$ brew cask install google-cloud-sdk
$ gcloud init
$ gcloud components install kubectl
$ gcloud container clusters get-credentials heimdall
$ gcloud auth configure-docker
```

When running `gcloud init` you'll want to authenticate with your Thesis
credentials and use the `heimdall` cluster in region `us-central-1`.

You'll need to make google-cloud-sdk available on your path.
`brew cask info google-cloud-sdk` gives general guidance on properly
pathing your install.

The easiest way to check is to see if, after
the above steps, you can run `kubectl config current-context` successfully.

To deploy a new build, you could tag and push your docker image:

```
$ docker tag heimdall:latest gcr.io/cfc-production/heimdall:my-cool-tag
$ docker push gcr.io/cfc-production/heimdall:my-cool-tag
```

Edit `infrastructure/kube/thesis-ops/heimdall-hubot-deployment.yaml` to reference your tag, and then apply:

```
$ kubectl apply -f infrastructure/kube/thesis-ops/heimdall-hubot-deployment.yaml
```

### Configuration

A few scripts (including some installed by default) require environment
variables to be set as a simple form of configuration.

Each script should have a commented header which contains a "Configuration"
section that explains which values it requires to be placed in which variable.
When you have lots of scripts installed this process can be quite labour
intensive. The following shell command can be used as a stop gap until an
easier way to do this has been implemented.

    grep -o 'hubot-[a-z0-9_-]\+' external-scripts.json | \
      xargs -n1 -I {} sh -c 'sed -n "/^# Configuration/,/^#$/ s/^/{} /p" \
          $(find node_modules/{}/ -name "*.coffee")' | \
        awk -F '#' '{ printf "%-25s %s\n", $1, $2 }'

How to set environment variables will be specific to your operating system.
Rather than recreate the various methods and best practices in achieving this,
it's suggested that you search for a dedicated guide focused on your OS.

### Scripting

An example script is included at `scripts/example.coffee`, so check it out to
get started, along with the [Scripting Guide][scripting-docs].

For many common tasks, there's a good chance someone has already one to do just
the thing.

[scripting-docs]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/scripting.md

### external-scripts

There will inevitably be functionality that everyone will want. Instead of
writing it yourself, you can use existing plugins.

Hubot is able to load plugins from third-party `npm` packages. This is the
recommended way to add functionality to your hubot. You can get a list of
available hubot plugins on [npmjs.com][npmjs] or by using `npm search`:

    % npm search hubot-scripts panda
    NAME             DESCRIPTION                        AUTHOR DATE       VERSION KEYWORDS
    hubot-pandapanda a hubot script for panda responses =missu 2014-11-30 0.9.2   hubot hubot-scripts panda
    ...

To use a package, check the package's documentation, but in general it is:

1. Use `npm install --save` to add the package to `package.json` and install it
2. Add the package name to `external-scripts.json` as a double quoted string

You can review `external-scripts.json` to see what is included by default.

##### Advanced Usage

It is also possible to define `external-scripts.json` as an object to
explicitly specify which scripts from a package should be included. The example
below, for example, will only activate two of the six available scripts inside
the `hubot-fun` plugin, but all four of those in `hubot-auto-deploy`.

```json
{
  "hubot-fun": ["crazy", "thanks"],
  "hubot-auto-deploy": "*"
}
```

**Be aware that not all plugins support this usage and will typically fallback
to including all scripts.**

[npmjs]: https://www.npmjs.com

### hubot-scripts

Before hubot plugin packages were adopted, most plugins were held in the
[hubot-scripts][hubot-scripts] package. Some of these plugins have yet to be
migrated to their own packages. They can still be used but the setup is a bit
different.

To enable scripts from the hubot-scripts package, add the script name with
extension as a double quoted string to the `hubot-scripts.json` file in this
repo.

[hubot-scripts]: https://github.com/github/hubot-scripts

## Persistence

If you are going to use the `hubot-redis-brain` package (strongly suggested),
you will need to add the Redis to Go addon on Heroku which requires a verified
account or you can create an account at [Redis to Go][redistogo] and manually
set the `REDISTOGO_URL` variable.

    % heroku config:add REDISTOGO_URL="..."

If you don't need any persistence feel free to remove the `hubot-redis-brain`
from `external-scripts.json` and you don't need to worry about redis at all.

[redistogo]: https://redistogo.com/

## Adapters

Adapters are the interface to the service you want your hubot to run on, such
as Campfire or IRC. There are a number of third party adapters that the
community have contributed. Check [Hubot Adapters][hubot-adapters] for the
available ones.

If you would like to run a non-Flowdock or shell adapter you will need to add
the adapter package as a dependency to the `package.json` file in the
`dependencies` section.

Once you've added the dependency with `npm install --save` to install it you
can then run hubot with the adapter.

    % bin/hubot -a <adapter>

Where `<adapter>` is the name of your adapter without the `hubot-` prefix.

[hubot-adapters]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/adapters.md
